# MastersThesis

The paper "Time Series Analysis with Deep Learning Methods" summarises classical methods like ARIMA, ARMA and deep learning methods like LSTMs on time series
data. The performance of different architectures of deep learning methods are compared and analysed. This paper gives a detailed and comprehensive understanding
about neural networks and how they can be implemented with the help of programming language (Python). Alongside, Pytorch framework is used to experiment with
the time series data. It is an open source machine learning library, developed by Facebook’s AI Research la. focused on deep learning problems like semantic recognition i.e.(Natural Language Processing), Computer Vision etc. To get the familiarity and link between neural networks, pytorch and tensors, basic operations on tenors in the pytorch framework has also been explained in the research paper. Several pre-processing techniques like normalisation and oversampling of data are used. We have done some experiments on different types of LSTM architectures to teach the model different pat- terns and insights of the data. As the data used in this paper is time series, which is considered sequential data, a major focus is given on RNNs and RNN encoder and de- coder(i.e. LSTMs). The data is taken from "ECG data for deep transfer learning". ECG data was taken for 4000 time steps. As the data was already augmented and filtered there was no need to clean dirty and raw data with techniques like handling missing values, dealing of NaNs etc. However, it was an unbalanced dataset for a multi-class classification problem. To distribute samples equally over the labels, oversampling of the inferior labels were done in order to achieve unbiased results. The hybrid model used LSTM-CNN has outperformed the other architectures used in the research. In the present scenario, ECGs/EKGs are widely used to detect and track human activity, such devices that have this capability have became an essential part of human life like digital watches, fitness bands. The goal of this research was to help medical officers by creating a model that can automatically detect the fall/accident of the person. Please note that, by accident, it meant here, is falling of a person such that it results in injury or something fatal.
